Let's make another component up here.
We're going to call it pizza.
OK, this is going to be another component.
And we're going to say return.
Well, yeah, we have to do react.createElement return.
This is going to be a div.
It's going to be an empty object here.
We're going to give it an array, just for fun,
because we want to return multiple top-level React
components.
And that's how you do it.
You do it with an array.
React.createElement H1, empty object.
And this is going to be the pepperoni pizza.
Feel free to put in here whatever you want.
If you like a pineapple on your pizza, no judgment here.
So we've now made this pizza component.
You see this is returning an array.
This is the way that you return two siblings as a top-level
component here.
The other way that this could work,
you can actually delete this and have it just
be multiple parameters to the react.createElement function.
Honestly, it doesn't really matter,
because once we start getting into JSX,
it's irrelevant of how it happens.
But just so you know, under the hood,
JSX will convert this to an array, which occasionally
can be useful, or it's at least good to know, or irrelevant.
I don't know, you might forget it, and who cares?
Anyway, an array.
So now we have this array, and we
want to render a bunch of pizzas inside of our app.
So we're also going to turn this into an array.
I'm going to move this createElement inside of it
as the first thing.
And then I'm just going to create a bunch of pizzas.
React.createElement pizza.
And I'm just going to make a couple of those.
So something you might be gathering here,
if it's a string, it's going to literally output
that string to the DOM as a DOM node.
And if it's a function or a React component of some variety,
it's going to try and render that function.
But the cool thing about React is you kind of
get to treat them the same.
Now, you might be asking, well, what
happened to this stuff, right?
You can put it in there.
So this will pass down properties into pizza,
and we'll look about that in just a second.
And you can give pizza children elements as well,
which we'll also talk about later.
But just so you know, it's the same function.
It works exactly the same way.
Because we have nothing to give it as children,
because we have no properties to give it,
we can just omit all of it, which
is what we're doing here.
OK.
So again, my favorite thing to do,
what do we expect to happen here?
And I like to work at the top of the tree, which is app,
and then work my way down.
All right.
So we're going to render into root app.
So we're going to render this.
Then we're going to have a div.
And inside of that div, we're going
to have an H1 with Padre Gino's, which is what we had before.
But then we have pizza here.
So this is going to go into pizza,
and it's going to render an H1 with pepperoni pizza,
and a P with mozzarella cheese and pepperoni.
It does it once.
And then it's going to do it again.
Another H1, another P. And it does so five different times.
So far, so good.
Makes sense?
So how many H1s do you expect?
Mildly a trick question.
Six, right?
Because you're going to have five from the pizza
and then one from Padre Gino's, right?
That's why it says mildly a trick question.
And then how many Ps do you expect?
Five.
All right.
Let's take a look.
A lot of pepperoni pizza.
Pretty cool, though, right?
You might react yelling at you.
Is this about keys?
Just go ahead and straight up ignore react.
It doesn't know what it's talking about.
We'll talk about that.
But for now, just ignore react.
What you're doing is fine.
Now I want to have multiple types of pizza.
I am a connoisseur of pizza, you might call me.
You might not.
So how do we do that?
What's cool is pizza can accept what
these things called props.
Stands for properties, in case you're wondering.
Probably was illuminating to no one.
You probably got that right away.
That's fine.
It made me feel smart to say it.
And we're going to say here on props,
we can pull things off of it that we pass down into it.
So we want to give it whatever the name of the pizza is.
And then we want to give it a description, right?
So we're going to say props.
I call it description.
I did.
So cool.
Now it's a bit more flexible.
I can accept a name.
I can accept a description.
Let's go ahead and add these to our pizzas.
So this is where this object is going to come in handy.
Now we can come in here and say object.
And we're going to give it a name.
And we'll give it, this one can be the pepperoni pizza.
And the description can be, I have
like nice looking descriptions here.
And I'm not going to do that because I
don't want to type that much.
So some dope pizza, yo, right?
Something like that, whatever you want to put there.
I'm not your mom.
Name, we're going to put the Americano in here
because I was just talking about it.
And I want you to sit there and think
about French fries on your pizza.
That's really what I want from this.
French fries and hot dogs.
What the, WTF Italy.
All right, there we go.
Name, just to continue with the theme,
we'll do the Hawaiian here next.
Description, pineapple and ham, WTF America.
All right, there we go.
And now we have the world's worst pizza menu.
All right, outside of indicting many cultures
with their pizza attitudes, what is interesting and useful
here is now this pizza component became far more useful to us.
We get to create this encapsulated bit of logic
that handles everything about having a pizza.
So if you imagine working with our Padre Gino's website
that we're about to go build, you
imagine that we have to display pizza in various different parts
of the website.
On the pizza of the day, we have to show it.
On the orders page, we have to show it.
On the past orders page, we have to show it.
And now we just get one pizza component
that if you give it the right information,
it's going to display nicely and encapsulate
all of the logic for making a pizza, right?
It's interesting to look at the history of React
and why it's built this way.
When React was created, the really big things on the market
were model view controllers or model view view models
frameworks, which was like Backbone, old Angular, Knockout.
They all had these kind of like, they
were copying basically what Rails was doing on the back end
and they were trying to ship that logic to the front end.
I wrote lots of it, pretty good code bases.
I mean, I'm not actually going to really talk down too much
to it, but React kind of had this like epiphany.
It's like, you know what's actually really easy
to write websites with?
PHP, right?
The page model really appealed to them
where you have everything kind of mashed together
for small things, right?
So instead of trying to separate,
here's my model that talks to the database,
here's my view of what people look at it,
and here's the view model, which connects the two things,
they were like, let's take the model, the view,
and the view model and shove it together
so you have these components that
contain everything for very small pieces of code.
That was kind of the PHP way unintentionally at the time,
but I'll say that my first job was I was a PHP dev.
I was very productive, right?
I shipped a lot of code very quickly.
So that is the story of React of how
we got this idea of like, we're going to take everything
for these small components and we're
going to shove them together so that you have everything
for one concern in one place.
And it turns out for UIs, that's extremely useful.
Because now we can have this pizza logic,
and instead of having to connect everything together,
we have to connect the view model
to all these different places.
We just say, here's a pizza, and all the logic for pizza
is contained in one space.
That's great.
I obviously have been doing it for a decade,
so I stuck with it.
So it's a really nice way of writing interfaces.
You'll see this little checkered flag here.
If you click this, this should take you to the directory
that we were in.
So this is the no-frills-react one.
You'll click in there.
You'll see that we have our app.js.
This is a much more culturally sensitive version
of what we were writing.
So if you got stuck, feel free to go grab this code
or take a look, and you can diff between the two
and say what's different, what worked, what didn't work.
And just look for those checkered flags
throughout the course.